Now that you've seen what Docker is,
some of the benefits it can offer us as web developers,
and a few of the Docker tools that are going to be involved throughout
this course, let's take a quick look at Docker in Action.
So the demonstration I'm going to show you actually uses six containers.
We have Nginx.
This is a reverse proxy.
We have three Node.js instances.
MongoDB is the database,
and Redis as a caching server, and I'll be able to get this up
and running quite quickly on my machine.
So let's jump in and I'll show you how this works.
Let's assume I've been tasked with getting my
development environment up and running,
and I needed to look not only like the other team members,
but also, like our staging and production environments.
Now, if you've done this very much,
you'll know that that can actually be a little bit
tricky, but with Docker it's very, very simple.
So I've already configured some Docker images we're going to
be talking about throughout the course,
and I already have some containers ready to go.
So I'm just going to run a simple command, that we'll learn about later, called
docker‑compose up, and this is a way that I can basically start up six
containers that I need to run this particular application. So we'll go ahead and
let this run and it'll take just a moment to fire up, here, as the web servers
connect to the database and things.
And right now I have an IP address that I already know Docker is
going to give me, and I'm going to hit refresh, and you'll see
right now it's not quite ready, so let's go on back, and we
should be really close here now.
All right, looks like we should be good to go now,
so let's hit it now and there we go.
So this just hit a website that's using, again, Mongo, Redis, Node,
Nginx, some other features behind the scenes,
and this is actually a company site.
You're going to get to work with a subset of this site, so you can have a more
realistic demonstration to work with throughout the course.
But it's a pretty standard application.
I can go in and get information about different things,
go back to the home page, pretty standard stuff,
and Docker made this really, really easy to work with.
Now I can do a Ctrl+C here, and now this is going to stop all the
containers, and from there, we'll be kind of done and ready to go.
Every now and then we'll throw an abort message.
You kind of just ignore that because we can just start it back up.
It looks like we're good. And I can just wipe that out,
and if I want to start it back up,
we're ready to go there and we'd be up and running.
So that's an example of Docker in Action on a Mac. We can get the exact
same environment going on the Windows side as well,
so I'll go ahead and run a command. We'll start everything up.
This will start up in genetics and some web servers and database and more.
And once this is all done, because we have the exact same environment
that I showed on the Mac side, we'll of course get the exact same
output in the same website running here.
So there's not going to be any variability between the two
sides of the house, and the same goes as we move things
between environments such as development,
staging, and production.
So this is almost done firing up for the first time, and we'll go
ahead and try to load this at this point. You can see we can get
the exact same website loaded up,
and that allows us to very consistently run our code in different environments. So that's an example of running Docker on the Windows side.